A Vajrakīla Lineage Prayer
by Tertön Sogyal

machö trödral dömé kuntuzang
Unaltered and beyond conceptual elaboration, the primordial Buddha Samantabhadra,
lhündrub gyutrul drukpa dorjé chang
Spontaneously perfect, illusory manifestation, the “Sixth” Buddha Vajradhāra,
nyimé chik dü dorsem sangdak sok
And, inseparable from them, the all-embodying Vajrasattva, Lord of Secrets and the rest—
gyüpé lama nam la solwa deb
Gurus of the lineage, to you we pray!

riktsal wang dzok pema tötreng tsal
Pema Tötreng Tsal, fully empowered with awareness-creativity,
sangwé dakmo dechen tsogyalma
Yeshe Tsogyal, Blissful Lady of Secrets,
ngönchö wangtob dorjé düjom sok
Dorje Dudjom, empowered to practise wrathful action, and the rest—
purpé rigdzin nam la solwa deb
Vidyādharas of the kīla, to you we pray!

tsa sum kündü palden lama dang
Glorious lama, embodiment of all the gurus, devas and ḍākinīs,
tukjé chotrul dorjé purpé lha
And deities of Vajrakīla, magical expressions of compassion,
leknyé tangdzin pursung terdak ché
Together with the kīla guardians, who weigh right and wrong, and all the treasure keepers—
kyilkhor yongdzok pal la solwa deb
To all you glorious deities of the maṇḍala, we pray!

lamé changchub sem kyi damtsik la
On the basis of our bodhicitta commitment to unsurpassable awakening,
ten né zungjuk dechen yeshe chok
We cultivate the supreme wisdom of the great bliss of union—
drubpé palchen dung dzin naljor la
Inspire us, yogis and holders of the lineage of the Great and Glorious One,
jinlab wang dang tutob nüpa tsol
With your blessings: grant us empowerment, strength and capacity!

yeshe purpé dakdzin ying su dral
With the wisdom kīla, let us liberate self-clinging into all-pervading space!
dechen purpé lungsem bakchak shyom
With the kīla of great bliss, let us overcome habitual patterns in subtle energy and mind!
tab kyi purpé sipa dorjer drub
With the kīla of skilful means, let us transform all existence into the vajra!
lé kyi purpé ten shik tsesok trok
With the kīla of activity, let us steal the life-force of all who harm the teachings!

detar ngotsar ngödrub chok dampa
In this way, may we gain the most supreme and wondrous of accomplishments,
kechik nyi la dak gi yong tob né
In their entirety and at this very instant!
palchen heruka dang yermé pé
And, always inseparable from the great and glorious Heruka,
trinlé lhündrub khorwa dong truk shok
May we carry out the activity of spontaneously emptying saṃsāra from its very depths!

Sogyal, who holds the name of a tertön and who has the great fortune to have been cared for
by this supreme of all yidam deities throughout the course of several lifetimes, wrote this
during a break in retreat. Jayantu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2013