Guru Yoga
by Tertön Sogyal Lerab Lingpa

hung, rigpé rangnang womin shying
Hūṃ! My own rigpa manifests as the heaven of Akaniṣṭha.
sang chok dechen podrang du
There, in the supremely secret palace of great bliss,
rangjung ngotsar chötrin ü
Amidst spontaneously arisen wondrous clouds of offerings,
palden lama dorjé chang
Presides the glorious Vajradhara Guru,
naljor rolpé ché dzok shing
Complete with all the adornments of a yogin,
pawo khandrö trin trowa
And emanating a great gathering of ḍākas and ḍākinīs.
ku sum rik dü ngowor sal
He is the embodiment of all the three kāyas,
damyé nyimé dorjé ku
His vajra body the inseparable union of samayasattva and jñānasattva.
rigpé ngang du jal chaktsal
In a state of rigpa, I offer homage and prostrations.
nang si shyir shyeng chö tsok bul
Great gatherings of offerings, arising within the ground of appearance and existence, I offer.
nyidzin kadak long du shak
All dualistic perceptions I confess in the expanse of primordial purity.
yedrol chenpor jé yi rang
I rejoice in the great primordial liberation.
ngönsum deng tob wang chok kur
Grant the supreme empowerment of confidence in direct realization, I pray.
rangdrol dön tön chökhor kor
Turn the wheel of Dharma revealing the meaning of self-liberation.
khyabdal ronyam shyuk soldeb
Remain within the great, all-encompassing equality of experience.
tuk yi yermé sangye shok
May I attain awakening, my mind and yours inseparably united.

hung hung, kunzang pejung trowo lö
Hūṃ! Hūṃ! Samantabhadra, Padmākara, wrathful Dorjé Drolö,
düdul lingpa düjom tsal
Düddul Lingpa,1 Dudjom Tsal,2
tenpé nyima leling sok
Tenpé Nyima,3 Lerab Lingpa and the rest—4
nyingtik dön gyü lama la
All you masters of the lineage of the ultimate heart essence,
solwa deb so jin chen pob
To you I pray! Shower down your blessings!
nyinang kha la trin tar yal
May all my dualistic perceptions vanish like clouds in the sky!
rangrig lama chökü shyal
May I realize directly, here and now,
danta diru ngön du gyur
The face of the dharmakāya guru, my very own rigpa.
rangné ku sum tensi zin
And may I seize the stronghold of the three kāyas that abide within myself.
riktsal trinlé lab chen gyi
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that through the vast blessings of the activity that is rigpa’s
very own power,
dro kham yong drol jingyi lob
All beings everywhere may find perfect liberation.
om ah maha guru benza trowo lö sarva jnana tsitta siddhi hung hung
oṃ āḥ mahāguru vajra trowolö sarva jñāna citta siddhi hūṃ hūṃ

Recite this and remain in a state beyond any conceptual focus or fixation. This was composed
by Lerab Lingpa.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2007. Published on Lotsawa House, 2019.
↑ i.e. Düdul Dorje (1615–1672).↑ i.e, Dudjom Lingpa (1835–1904).↑ i.e., Dodrupchen Jigme Tenpe
Nyima↑ A note says that there is an alternative version in Pema Rolpé Dorjé’s handwriting,
which adds an extra line at this point invoking Drodul Pema Sangak Lingpa, i.e.,Tulku
Trimé Özer (1881–1924).