Serkyem (Golden Libation) Offering to the Guardians of the Tradition
by Tertön Sogyal Lerab Lingpa

Bless the pure select portion of offerings, including food and drink, with:
ram yam kham | om ah hung
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ! Oṃ āḥ hūṃ!
hung, chok sum rigdzin tsa gyü lama dang
Hūṃ! Three Jewels, vidyādhara root and lineage masters,
gyü dé druk gi shyitro rabjam lha
Infinite deities of the six classes of tantra, peaceful and wrathful,
pawo khandro damchen gyatso la
Ocean-like host of ḍākas, ḍākinīs and samaya-bound protectors:
serkyem chöpa bul lo trinlé dzö
To you, we offer this golden drink: carry out your activity!

khyepar lekden maning dügön nak
Especially Lekden, Maning, and the Black Dügon,
ekadzati sokdrub remati
Ekajaṭī, Sokdrupma and Rematī,
drangsong za chok dorjé lekpa la
Supreme ṛṣi Rāhula, and Dorjé Lekpa
serkyem chöpa bul lo trinlé dzö
To you, we offer this golden drink: carry out your activity!

wangmo nyergyé chidak pur sung dang
The twenty-eight īśvarīs, Lord of Death and guardians of Kīlaya,
karmo nyida dügyal tötreng chen
Karmo Nyida and Dügyal Tötreng Chen,
tsen gö barwa depön sumchu la
The blazing wild Tsen, and the thirty chieftains of divisions,
serkyem chöpa bul lo trinlé dzö
To you, we offer this golden drink: carry out your activity!

drek chen chobgyé tenma chunyi dang
The eighteen great arrogant ones, twelve tenmas
zabter sungma shyidak karchok kyong
Guardians of the profound termas, local deities, and those who protect the Dharma and the good,
gowé lha nga kyobjé lha nam la
The five patron deities, and all deities who give protection:
serkyem chöpa bul lo trinlé dzö
To you, we offer this golden drink: carry out your activity!

shyenyang jikten dé dang madepé
Also, you who belong to this world and those who are beyond it,
chökyong norlha terdak dé gyé rik
Dharmapālas, wealth deities, terma lords, and the eight classes,
nang shying sipé khordé drön nam la
To all guests of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, of all appearance and existence,
serkyem chöpa bul lo trinlé dzö
To you, we offer this golden drink: carry out your activity!

khyé nam chö ching trinlé cholwé tü
You! By the power of our offering and commanding you to act,
gyalwé ten dang tendzin dar shying gyé
Make the teaching and the holders of the teaching flourish and spread,
pendé getsen yar ngö da tar pel
Make auspicious signs, of help and happiness, increase like a waxing moon,
chö tün samdön yishyin drubpar dzö
And make all our aspirations according to the Dharma be fulfilled, just as we wish!
Reciting this, make the offering.

Composed by the one who holds the name of tertön, Lerab Lingpa. May it be of immense benefit!

| Rigpa Translations. Edited and amended for Lotsawa House.

Source: Las rab gling pa. "rang lugs kyi srung ma spyi yi gser skyems:" In las rab gling pa'i
gter chos/. BDRC W21810. Bylakuppe: Pema Norbu Rinpoche, 1985-. Vol. 17: 41–42.

Version: 1.2-20210709