The Wisdom Mind Practice of One Kīla
a terma of Tertön Sogyal

Homage to the deities of Vajrakīla! This is the essence of all his practices.
dorjé tröpé shyedang chö
When vajra wrath is aroused, aggression is cut right through.
tsöncha ngönpo barwa yi
The great weapon of compassion, the blazing blue (syllable hūṃ)
namkhé kyil né tikpa shar
Arises and hangs, like a drop, in (empty) space,
sok gi go ru salwa dang
The life force of the whole universe, brilliantly radiant,
nying gi kyil du gompar ja
Visualized in the centre of my heart
nyingjé dralwé damtsik ni
The great samaya of ‘liberating through compassion’.
sé ching nenpa mayin té
It is neither killing (out of anger) nor suppressing (out of ignorance).
pungpo dorjé tamjé né
My whole body is transformed into vajra
nampar shepa dorjer gom
And my consciousness is transformed into its true nature,
om benza kili kilaya hung pé
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya hūṃ phaṭ
sangye kün gyi yeshe ku
The wisdom body of all the buddhas.
ngang nyi dorjé chöying lé
From the great peace of the vajra dharmadhātu
barwé trowo mizepé
Blazing and unbearably wrathful
ku yi yik tu dak kyé do
I assume the precious body of Vajrakumāra.
chönyi kyewa mepa lé
From out of the unborn dharmatā
magak dorjé sinpö ku
(Arises) its unceasing display: the wrathful Vajrarakṣa
ting nak chak nyi purpa dril
Dark blue, his two hands wielding the kīla,
khorlo gyendeb yum dangché
In union with his consort Diptacakra
kalpa mé tar barwé long
Amidst the blazing fire (of wisdom), like the inferno at the end of a kalpa.
rangjung yeshe ku ru sal
Clearly visualized, the radiant, naturally arising wisdom body.
The Invocation
hung, dorjé shyönnu rigdzin nam
Hūṃ! Vidyādharas of Vajrakumāra:
sipa dorjé drub dzö chik
Actualize this existence as (the maṇḍala) of Vajra(kīla)!
sipa dorjé purpé lha
Deities of (the maṇḍala of) the Vajrakīla of existence:
yeshe trowo drubpar dzö
Actualize the wisdom wrath!
Rest in the wisdom mind of Vajrakīla and recite the mantra:
om benza kili kilaya sarva bighanen bam hung pé
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya sarva vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ
If you recite this continuously, you will accomplish Vajrakīla.
In the break between sessions, prepare as much tsok and torma offerings as you can, and bless
them by reciting the three syllables:
ram yam kham | om ah hung
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ Oṃ āh hūṃ
hung, sipé purbu drubpa dang
Hūṃ! To accomplish the kīla of existence
wang dang ngödrub langwé chir
And receive empowerments and siddhis,
yeshe trowo shek su sol
I invoke the wisdom wrath of Vajrakīla—may you descend!
yeshe trowo shek né kyang
And, having come,
döyön gyen gyi tsoktor dang
Enjoy this tsok and torma offering, ornamented by the sensual stimulants, and
chöpé chakgya chenpo shyé
This great mudrā of offering!
tak dang tsenma tenpa dang
Show me the actual signs and marks of accomplishment, and
kilaya yi ngödrub tsol
Especially, grant me the siddhis of Kīlaya!
dren dang kanyen ponyé tsok
All the attendants and messengers, the protectors of Vajrakīla, who obey commands—
lhakmé torma di shyé la
Accept this remainder torma
ngöntsé jitar khelang shyin
And, just as you pledged at an earlier time,
gowé ka nam drubpar dzö
Carry out the activities which we command!
sarva ghanatsakra pudza khahi
Sarva gaṇacakra pūja khāhi
Since this Wisdom Mind Practice of One Kīla is the ultimate and most profound of practices,
may those who, in a future age, are fortunate enough to meet with it, take it to heart and
practise it constantly.
Samaya! Gya gya gya! Ter gya! Sang gya! Zab gya! Té gya!

May those fortunate beings who have a karmic link with this practice meet with it! The ‘warrior’
Lerab Lingpa revealed this at Kathok Dorjé Den, deciphering it from a terma scroll in
the handwriting of Vairotsana himself. May all who see, hear, remember or touch it attain
the perfect state of realization of Vajrakumāra.
Maṅgalaṃ!

| Rigpa Translations, edited and amended for Lotsawa House.

Source: Las rab gling pa. "thugs dam thugs kyi phur gcig:" In las rab gling pa'i gter chos/.
BDRC W21810. Bylakuppe: Pema Norbu Rinpoche, 1985-. Vol. 11: 417–420.

Version: 1.1-20210709