The Ultimate, Natural Dispeller of Obstacles
by Tertön Sogyal

From the experience of realization and equality, practitioners arise from the samādhi of great
sealing and recite the following:
hung, chönyi gyurwa mepa lé
Hūṃ! Out of the unchanging dharmatā—reality itself,
rangjung khordé nangsi kün
Saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, appearance and existence, naturally arise—
nyimé dechen rangshyin du
Although we do not realize their nature, great bliss beyond duality,
ma tok nyisu dzinpa yang
And instead we cling to them dualistically,
machö nyampé tingdzin gyi
Still, through the samādhi of uncontrived equality,
dzinmé rolpa chenpor dok
Let this be dispelled within the great play of non-grasping!

trulpar sempé duk nga dang
There are five poisons of the ordinary deluded mind,
duk nga drolwé tab chenpo
And great methods for liberating these five poisons—
ying kyi ngang lé ma yö chir
As they have not strayed from the experience of basic space,
yené tadé nyisumé
They have always been inseparable and non-dual,
nyisumepa chö kyi ku
In this non-duality, which is the dharmakāya,
trödral dewa chenpor dok
Great bliss beyond conceptual elaboration, let them be averted!

timuk marik chenpo yang
Great ignorance and delusion too
rangsal melong yeshe té
Are the naturally clear mirror-like wisdom.
nyinang shyenpé tibpa nam
Let obscurations brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
timuk dorje nyi du dok
Be averted in the vajra nature of delusion itself!

shyedang dukpé tokpa yang
Thoughts of hostility and anger too
rangjung chöying yeshe té
Are the naturally arisen wisdom of dharmadhātu.
nyinang shyenpé narwa nam
Let torments brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
shyedang dorje nyi du dok
Be averted in the vajra nature of anger itself!

ngagyal tumpé tokpa yang
Thoughts of pride and stubborn arrogance too
rangjung nyamnyi yeshe té
Are the naturally arisen wisdom of equality.
nyinang shyenpé khengpa nam
Let haughtiness brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
ngagyal dorje nyi du dok
Be averted in the vajra nature of pride itself!

döchak dzinpé tokpa yang
Thoughts of desire and clinging too
rangjung sortok yeshe té
Are the naturally arisen wisdom of discernment.
nyinang shyenpé chingwa nam
Let restraints brought about by attachment to dualistic perception
döchak dorje nyi du dok
Be averted in the vajra nature of desire itself!

trakdok göpé tokpa yang
Thoughts of rampant jealousy  too
rangjung ja drub yeshe té
Are the naturally arisen all-accomplishing wisdom.
nyinang shyenpé trukpa nam
Let disturbances brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
trakdok dorje nyi du dok
Be averted in the vajra nature of jealousy itself!

pogyur nyimé chöying lé
Out of the dharmadhātu, beyond the duality of change and transformation,
gyumé chotrul chiryang char
Illusory appearances arise magically in all manner of forms.
tadé dzinpé natsok drub
By perceiving them as distinct, variety is created,
marik dro nam denpar trul
And ignorant beings stray into the belief that things are real.
nyamnyi tokpé gyalwa yi
To free them, victorious buddhas, who have realized equality,
drol chir trinlé natsok tön
Display a variety of enlightened activities.
ying lé ma yö rolpé gyen
Never straying from basic space, all adornments of display
tamché gyalwé trinlé té
Are the enlightened activity of victorious buddhas.
tamché yené nyampa nyi
They are and always have been equality itself.
panglang mepé kha ying su
In this sky-like sphere, beyond acceptance and rejection,
nyinang toktsok tamché dok
Let all thoughts of dualistic perception be averted!

hung, nga ni dorje rigpa dzin
Hūṃ! I am the holder of vajra-like awareness,
dü sum gyalwé daknyi ché
Great embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future,
rangjung gongpé jinlab kyi
Through the inspiration and blessings of naturally arisen realization,
khordé denshyen gyuma kün
Let all illusory attachments to the reality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
yené trödral kha la dok
Be dispelled within the space that has always been free from conceptual elaboration,
lhün gyi drubpé ying su dok
Be dispelled within spontaneously present basic space!
dechen zungjuk ngang du dok
Be dispelled within the state of unified great bliss!
makyé rangné chenpor dok
Be dispelled within the great unborn natural state!
dudral mepé ngang du dok
Be dispelled within the state beyond union and separation!
kyegak nyimé long du dok
Be dispelled within the expanse beyond both arising and ceasing!
With this, rest in meditative equipoise.

This was set down by one like me, Kunzang Padmākara. Samaya! Gya gya gya!

This was deciphered from the yellow scroll by one whose treasure-revealing name is Sogyal.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2012. First published on Lotsawa House, 2021.

Source: Las rab gling pa. "chos nyid don gyi bzlog pa:" In las rab gling pa'i gter chos/. BDRC
W21810. Bylakuppe: Pema Norbu Rinpoche, 1985-. Vol. 13: 301–305.

Version 1.1-20220228