The Sweet Song of Māra's Defeat
A Prayer for the Long Life of the Great Tertön and Vidyādhara Lerab Lingpa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Oṃ svasti sidhyantu!

chok sum tsa sum malü düpé jé
The mantra adept Nanam Dorje Dudjom
maha guru pema jungné kyi
Was a supreme disciple of noble family, an expression of the wisdom realization
yeshe gongpé rang tsal bang rik chok
Of the mahāguru Padmasambhava,
ngak kyi naljor dorjé düjom kyi
Sovereign embodiment of the Three Supreme Ones and Three Roots.
namrol chudé roltsal gakmé lé
His emanations arise unobstructedly like reflections of the moon in water,
ché cher nyikdü ten dro kyobpé nyen
And in this age of increasing degeneration he is a friend and protector of the teachings and
beings,
zab dang gyaché chö nor terdzö dol
A treasure trove overflowing with profound and vast Dharma riches,
trulpé rigdzin chenpor shyabten sol
Great emanated vidyādhara—I pray that your life may remain secure.

pema küntu changwé jin gyi lab
Inspired by the blessings of Padma, the Universal Bearer,
trinlé lha chok dorjé ki la yé
You perfected the strength of the powerful vidyā-mantras
tutob nüpé rik ngak tsal chen dzok
Of Vajrakīla, the supreme deity of enlightened activity,
khandro chö kyong nam shyi lé la kol
And put the ḍākinīs and dharmapālas to fourfold action.
drekpa dé gyé den du tsekpé trir
You whose throne is upon a mass of the eight arrogant spirits
ma rung dü dré tsok nam tar dzepa
And who liberates the hordes of unruly foes and demons,
dü kyi shé chen rigdzin drakpo tsal
Fierce and mighty vidyādhara, Dükyi Shechen, 'Slayer of Demons',
kham sum zilnön chenpor shyabten sol
Great subjugator of the three realms, may your life remain secure.

ku ni gyutrul dorjé gar gyé tsen
You whose form expresses a hundred vajra dances of magical illusion,
sung ni shyommé dorjé na dé yang
Whose speech resounds with the indestructible vajra melody of nāda,
tuk ni zakmé dechen dütsi tam
And whose mind is filled with the nectar of immaculate great bliss—
lerab lingpa kal gyar tsoshyé sol
Lerab Lingpa, may your life remain secure for a hundred aeons.

chok ten nyingpo nyinmor jepa la
You who shine like the sun of the supreme essential teachings,
puljung khyen nü tsewé tu nga shying
And possess the power of excellent wisdom, capacity and love,
gangchen drub rik kün gyi tsukgyen chok
Supreme crown adornment of all adepts in this snow-filled land,
yomé dorjé tri la tak shyuk sol
May you remain forever on the immovable vajra throne, I pray.

ngé sang riktong gongpé tsal barwé
Through the blazing force of awareness-emptiness realization, the definitive secret,
tenyo tamché yeshe chakgyé teb
May the whole animate and inanimate world be sealed with primordial wisdom.
rangjung ösal chenpö jin bebpé
Through the descent of blessings of the great, naturally arisen luminosity,
nöchü yé dakchen por lhün gyi drub
May the environment and beings spontaneously manifest as vast primordial purity.

trul tok güpé tsok nam ying su shyi
May all the tribulations of deluded conception be pacified within basic space.
dzemé ga dé palyön takpar gyé
May the glorious qualities of inexhaustible joy and happiness continuously expand.
püntsok sishyi getsen tong barwé
And through the blazing of a thousand positive signs of perfect wonder throughout existence
and quiescence,
sa sum tashi pal gyi dzé gyur chik
May the three worlds be enriched with the splendour of auspiciousness.

lumé tsa sum tukjé den tob dang
Through the power and truth of the unfailing compassionate Three Roots,
naljor dak gi lhaksam dakpé tü
And my own pure and noble intentions as a practitioner,
jitar mönpé né di nyur drub né
May these points of aspiration be swiftly fulfilled,
mitün dü dé yul lé gyal gyur chik
Bringing victory in the battle with adversity and Māra's hordes.

Thus, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö wrote these words of truth for the longevity of Lerab Lingpa, an
undisputed treasure-revealing emanation for this era, on the fourth day of the eleventh month,
when the moon, supreme among heavenly bodies, was auspiciously conjoined in play with
śravaṇā. May this prayer become a cause for the lotus feet of the great vidyādhara to remain
secure for a hundred aeons. Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ suśreyo bhavatu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gter ston rig 'dzin chen po las rab gling ba'i zhabs
brtan bden tshig/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 465–466