The Twenty-Eight Commitments
from the Words of the Buddha1

om, naljor wangpo yeshe tarchinpa
Oṃ. Lord of yoga who has attained the ultimate wisdom,
dro la pen dzé tukjé wang gyur shying
You who benefit beings and have mastered compassion,
sipa sum gyi nyen gyur chikpu pa
Unique friend and ally to all three realms of existence,
lha yi lha khyö dak la gong su sol
God among gods, pray turn your attention towards me.

dewar shekpé trulpa gyatso dang
Oceanic emanations of the bliss-gone buddhas,
naljor wangchuk drubpé tsokchen po
Vast assemblies of accomplished lords of yoga,
lha dang lhamin ngakchang damtsik chen
And oath-bound mantra-holders, devas and the rest—
künné düpa nam kyang gong su sol
Gathered from all around, pray turn your attention towards me.

dak ni gyalsi tori longchö dang
For my part, I do not seek dominion, higher realms,
döpé yönten dak drub ma lak té
Possessions and resources or the pleasures of the senses,
dro la nying tsé khoné dön tsönpa
But strive only out of a loving and altruistic concern—
di la künkhyen khyö ni pang du sol
Omniscient ones, witness this pledge of mine, I pray.

gönpo yeshe dribpa mi ngawé
Protectors, since your wisdom is unobstructed,
dak gi lhakpé sampa khyé kyi khyen
You understand this noble intention of mine.
pakchok chen ngar jitar damchepa
Following my pledge in your sublime presence,
sünpar mi gyi gön khyö lu ma lak
I shall not disappoint or deceive you, O protectors.

nying né dak ni khé dang drak lasok
Sincerely I renounce all preoccupation with gain and fame,
yo dang zangzing sem ni ten pang né
All forms of deception and concern for material possessions,
shyendön drubpa chikpü sem shyak té
And by focusing my attention entirely on others’ benefit,
naljor chöpa chenpo dak gi chö
I shall carry out the magnificent activities of a yogi.

kuntuzangpo lanamepa yi
I set my mind on the supreme, unsurpassed
changchub chok tu dak gi semkyé dé
Awakening of Samantabhadra,
döndam dang ni kündzob changchub sem
And vow that henceforth I shall fully adopt
deng né tsulshyin yongsu zungwar gyi
Ultimate and relative bodhicitta in the proper way.

sokchak tamché galté dü gyur né
Even if all living creatures were to turn demonic
dumbur tong du dak gi lü tub kyang
And cut my body into a thousand tiny pieces,
changchub sem chok sherab nyingjé dang
Still I would not renounce supreme bodhicitta,
yidam gyalwa khyé ni yong mi pong
Wisdom and compassion, or you, yidam deities.

dorjé damtsik chenpo nam dang ni
Even at the cost of my life, I shall never forsake the great vajra samayas,
dorjé lobpön dorjé checham dang
The vajra master, or my vajra brothers and sisters,
shyenyang tekpa chok la shyukpa nam
As well as all who have entered the supreme vehicle,
sok gi chir yang mi tong chi nü sung
And I shall always do whatever I can to protect them.

khorwa dakmé gyumé rangshyin la
Saṃsāra, which is by nature unreal and illusory,
dak ni jikpa chiyang ma chi té
Will not inspire the slightest fear in me at all,
marik kyewo nam kyi dön ledu
As I joyfully remain until the very end of time
chitar tuk gi bardu nepar tro
For the sake of those who live in ignorance.

shyendön khorwa nam su chöpa na
While coursing through saṃsāric realms for others’ sake,
changchub chöpa lab chen dak gi ché
I shall carry out great waves of enlightening activity.
dro druk semchen nam la pen dak chir
In order to benefit sentient beings of the six classes
rangwang du ni kyewa langwar gyi
I shall take on births according to my own intention.

dak ni yongsu zungwé jikten nam
I shall not take delight in and cling to this world
nya ngen dé la trowa ma chi té
Or pursue the limited transcendence of misery,
gang dang gangdu dukngal né nam su
But continue to bring benefit for oceanic aeons
kalpa gyatsor né shing penpar gyi
In states of suffering, wherever they may be.

sipar yün ring dü su tsönpa ni
Prolonged exertion in conditioned existence
changchub sempé yidam lakpé na
Is a bodhisattva’s commitment, and therefore
jisi ngensong tongpar magyurpa
For as long as it takes to empty the lower realms,
desi dak gi kyowé sem mi kyé
I shall continue without ever feeling discouraged.

sherab tab kyi drowé dön gyipa
Working for beings’ sake with wisdom and method,
nyingjé longchö dé lé machipé
And never lacking the provisions of compassion,
sem nyal yidak shinjé jikten yang
I shall view even the hell realms, the land of pretas,
lha yi gatsal tabur tawar gyi
And the world of Yama as heavenly gardens of delight.

dro la tuk tsé pal gyi gul né sung
Inspired by loving kindness for beings, yogis produce
naljor damchö dütsi chok nam ni
The sublime nectar of Dharma from their splendid throats.2
dak gi jikten tukpa machipar
May I too dispense and propagate teachings as appropriate
jitar tsampa shyindu gyepar gyi
Continuously until the very end of this world.

sipa lé dang kyen gyi wang gyur té
Under the influence of worldly karma and conditions,
gang dang gangdu damchö jikpa der
The sacred Dharma will cease to exist in certain places;
mé tsok pudri so yang gal né ni
So even if I must traverse fire or a razors’s edge,
chitar tuk gi bardu damchö zung
May I uphold the noble teachings until the end of time.

lamé changchub chok tu semkyé dé
Setting my mind on supreme, unsurpassable awakening,
drubpa chok la shyukpé kyewo la
And engaging in the supreme form of practice,
tserab nam su tutsal chichi kyi
With whatever strength I can muster throughout my lives,
kyé chen nam kyi gongpa taktu kang
May I always fulfil the enlightened intentions of great beings.

dampé chö dang drubpé gek gyurpa
Whatever obstructs the sacred Dharma and its practice,
mi dang mi min dukpa gangyang rung
Whether from human intervention or non-human forces,
dak gi shyi dang trowö trinlé kyi
May I, through my peaceful and wrathful activity,
yongsu shyi shying nampar shyompar gyi
Pacify it all and put an end to it entirely.

naljor chok gi tekchen lamé dang
Through the unsurpassable great vehicle of supreme yoga,
dorjé gyalpo khyö la ten né ni
And through relying on you, the vajra sovereign,
sangye shying jang dro la men ledu
May I purify buddha realms and come to beings’ aid
changchub nyingpo dak gi tokpar gyi
By realizing the essence of awakening.

dak ni pakchok chakgya ngön trul té
If I should succumb to an untimely death,
galté kabmé chiwé dü jung tsé
Then, by emanating a sublime and exalted mudrā form,
sang ngak gönpo yeshe kyilkhor chen
May I arrive in your presence in order to continue the path,
khyé kyi shyab kyi drung du chiwar gyi
O Guardian of secret mantra with your wisdom maṇḍala.3

si sum dukngal chindra khyé kyi khyen
You know what suffering there is throughout the three realms.
nyal tsok mepung shyiwar gyi lasok
So as I seek to act swiftly on behalf of beings,
semchen dön la nyurdu dak chi na
By extinguishing the fires of the hells and so on,
dampa nam kyi nütu tsal du sol
May the sublime ones grant me the power I require.

May virtue abound.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.
↑ The ultimate source of these verses is unclear. They occur several times throughout the Rinchen
Terdzö, as well as in the collected writings of Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, Chokgyur Lingpa,
and Tertön Sogyal. Mipham Rinpoche wrote a commentary upon them based on the teachings
of Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo. In his guru yoga of Śākyamuni Buddha entitled the Merry Sea
of Blessings (byin rlabs rol mtsho), Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö states that they originate
in the Nyingma tantras but does not further specify which text. The title applied to
these verses varies: they are most commonly referred to as the Twenty-Eight Commitments (dam
bca' nyer brgyad pa), although Mipham refers to them in his commentary as the Twenty [Verses
of] Commitment (dam bca' nyi shu pa).↑ Following Mipham’s commentary and reading this
as mgul. Some editions have mgur, which means yogic song.↑ The translation of this verse
follows Mipham’s commentary and incorporates some of his explanation.