54. The Method to Pacify All Epidemics, Illnesses and Pandemics
From the Sixty Solitary Forms of Yamāntaka
revealed by Tertön Sogyal Lerab Lingpa

dorjé né rim shyidzé jang
I appear as Yamāntaka, the Vajra Pacifier of All Illness,
shyal chik tro dzum chen sumpa
Green in colour, with three eyes, and smiling with a hint of wrath.
chetsik shang né yeshe lung
As I bear my fangs, a five-coloured wisdom wind emerges from my nose
ö ngé tsul trö dukngal sel
And eradicates all forms of suffering.
kutö cherwa rüpé gyen
My upper body is naked but for ornaments of bone,
kumé dar mar shamtab dzé
My lower body wreathed in a garment of red silk.
chak nyi nyamshyak dzepé teng
My two hands rest in a gesture of meditation
dütsi men gyi bum zung tok
And cradle a delicate vase filled with medicinal nectar.
shyab nyi nyampé tab kyi shyeng
With my two legs standing in a posture of evenness,
yeshe mé ö long na sal
I appear vividly clear amidst the brilliance of wisdom fire.
For the stages of mantra repetition:
tukkar pé dé tengdu jamyang karpo longkü gyenchen chak nyi bumpa dütsi gangwa nampé tuk tsitta
rinpoche nang du
White Mañjuśrī sits at my heart wearing the ornaments of the saṃbhogakāya and holding a vase
filled with nectar. Within the precious enclosure of his heart
da teng hung yik karpö tar
Is a white syllable Hūṃ standing on a moon disk.
ngak treng karmé trengwa tar
It is encircled by a mantra arranged like a constellation of stars.
khorwé ö kyi dön nyi jé
The light of the garland performs the twofold purpose;
khyepar da shyün tabü ö
Its moonlight radiance in particular,
dang sil dütsi dangché trö
Filled with a pure, cooling nectar,
rangshyen né rim gyukyen ché
Heals and purifies all epidemics, illnesses and pandemics,
shyi shying dak né detong gi
Along with their respective causes and conditions for myself and others.
yeshe gyü la kyé né kyang
It induces the wisdom of bliss and emptiness
zakmé dorjé tabü ku
And renders evident the uncontaminated vajra-kāya
dré gü mepé rangshyin sam
That is naturally free of ageing and decay.
om manjushri krodha radhi pana atsaye hung pé
oṃ mañjuśrī krodha ra dhi pa na a tsa ye hūṃ phaṭ
Repeating the mantra 600,000 times will heal all illness and pandemics, and ensure that you
are forever without illness and acquire bountiful bliss and comfort. Samaya.

Lerab Lingpa set this down in front of the white rocks of Karon. Maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Sean Price 2020, at the command of the sublime Lama Yönten of Nyakrong (and
Lerab Ling).

Source: Las rab gling pa. "gshin rje dpa' gcig drug cu las:_nad rims zhi mdzad kyi sgrub thabs:"
In las rab gling pa'i gter chos/. BDRC W21810. Bylakuppe: Pema Norbu Rinpoche, 1985-.
Vol. 7: 341–342.

Version: 1.1-20210709