The Seeds of Faith
A Prayer to the Vidyādhara and Great Tertön Lerab Lingpa
by Tertön Drimé Ösel Lingpa

emaho
Emaho: O Wonder!
gang jong lha chik ngadak trisong jéi
The sovereign and ‘sole deity’ of the Land of Snows was Lord Trisong Detsen:
chökyi lönpo nanam rik su trung
You were his Dharma minister, born into the Nanam clan,
kyé mang orgyen pemé jé su zung
Always cared for by Orgyen Padma, throughout your many lives,
ngak chang dorjé düdjom la solwa dep
Master of mantras, Dorje Dudjom—to you we pray!

khyö nyi gyalwé sa chok drup nyé kyang
You attained the supreme realization of buddhahood,
dulja yelwa mi dor jé zung chir
Yet, so as not to abandon, but care for, beings needing to be tamed,
ngödrup gyaltsen lekden pé trin sok
You returned as Ngödrup Gyaltsen,1 Lekden Je,2 Pema Trinle3 and so on—
tendröi pal gön jön la solwa dep
To you, the succession of glorious protectors of the teachings and beings, we pray!

béyul kosala yi u tséi char
Close by the peak of Kosala’s hidden land,
rabjung chu shyi mé po druk gi lor
In the male fire dragon year of the fourteenth cycle,4
tra rig shyipé khyim du ku kyé shyé
You took birth in the household of Shyipa, in the family of Tra,
trulku sönam gyalpor solwa dep
Nirmanakāya Sönam Gyalpo, ‘king of merit’—to you we pray!

tenpé gor shyuk lok dri tokmé khyen
Entering into the teachings, you mastered reading and writing unhindered, and then
wenpé ri la zimpé nal lam du
On an isolated mountainside, in your sleep you dreamt that then
ngak dak ral chik ma yi shyal ten né
Mistress of Mantra, Ekajaṭī, showed you her face
tsem kar nying la tsukpé kyen gyi ngang
And plunged her white fang into your heart. Startled and shaken,
ku la nyun pok pa khyim yul pang né
You were stricken with sickness, and turned your back on parents and home.
drubwang jalüpa yi chö gar peb
Going to the Dharma camp of the powerful siddha Nyala Padma Düdul, who attained the rainbow
body,
jetsün chomden dorjéi jé su zung
You studied with Jetsün Chomden Dorje—Lama Sönam Taye,5
dampé tuk gyü drol la solwa dep
And through the oral instructions, liberated the stream of your wisdom mind—to you we pray!

ngön gyi rig sé ter gyi sungma yi
Your karmic predisposition from before awakened and the guardian of the termas
ter drom ngö su pul shying katok jön
Placed the treasure casket in your hands. You went to Kathok,
drolö ngö nang tenpé gyaltsen sok
Where from Tenpe Gyaltsen6—Shyingkyong Gönpo—who was Dorje Drolö in person, and from
lobpön mang ten mindrol pakmé sen
Many other teachers, you received immeasurable empowerments and instructions,
shok ser ngö lé da bep pakmé nang
From the ḍākinīs’ code script, you deciphered immeasurable teachings,
sangwé gyé tap rang nyam tsechik lang
Which you kept secret, reserving them solely for your own practice.
drubpé tak tön lha dang nyisu mé
As the sign of accomplishment, you became inseparable from the deities;
drub pé wang chuk khyé la solwa dep
Lord of siddhas—to you we pray!

dzakar peb té choktrul rinpocher
Going to Dzahka, from Dzahka Choktrul Rinpoche7
dorjé nyingpö zab tri gyépa sen
You received the detailed profound instruction on the ‘Vajra Essence’, and
lungtok tenpé nyimé shyap la tuk
At the feet of Nyoshul Lungtok Tenpe Nyima,
dampé düdtsi shyé né khyen rap dzok
You received the nectar of the instructions, and perfected total understanding and knowledge.
jamyang khyentsé lodrö tayé dang
From Jamyang Khyentse, Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Taye,
jampal dorjé la sok khédrup lé
Mipham Jampal Dorje and the like, learned and accomplished masters,
mindrol tayé sen sam tar chin dzé
You received, contemplated on and brought to fruition limitless empowerments and instructions.
khépé khyu chok khyö la solwa dep
Supreme chief among the learned—to you we pray!

bö dang bö chen jong dang gya sok yul
In the lands of Tibet and Greater Tibet, China and the like,
né chen kun jön lha ten tamché la
You travelled to all the sacred places, and before all the holy images,
drup dang chöpa chak kor duma dzé
You practised and made countless offerings, prostrations and circumambulations.
zap ter mang shyé chok mé kalden la
You received many profound termas, and to fortunate disciples from everywhere
min drol pakmé nang shying tarlam kö
You granted empowerments and instructions, and set them on the path to liberation.
ten dang dro la minpé dzé zang gi
In this sublime activity of ripening, for the benefit of Dharma and beings,
kutsé tö mé kuntu dawar dzé
You spent your entire life, from beginning to end.
méjung tukjé chen la solwa dep
To you who possess wondrous compassion, we pray!

tse chik chok mé wen rir shuk né su
Single-mindedly, in various places, you lived on remote, deserted mountains,
nang gi nyam len dak la chik tu dril
Concentrating all your innermost practice into one—
shyen nö shyi dang chepa yang pang shing
Abandoning harm towards others, along with the states of mind behind it,
shyen pen gang dul tap khé gyün ché mé
And continuously using skilful means to benefit others, in whatever way they needed,
rimé ten la gü shing dak nang shar
A devotion to the non-partisan teaching, and pure perception dawned.
shé den dak la chi nang chö kun gyi
Speaking to the learned, in precise detail, about all of the outer and inner Dharma,
dro leng shyipmöi tenpé sal je bar
You ignited the torch of the teachings.
gyalwé tendzin chok la solwa dep
Supreme holder of the teaching of the buddhas—to you I pray!

ché tsö tsom la chak tok dribpa dral
Unobscured by any hindrance in explaining, debating or composing—
barmé nyin tsen ösel khor yuk dré
Without a break, day and night, you were merged continuously with luminosity.
drubpé tak su marmé rang bar dang
As signs of your accomplishment, the butter lamps lit themselves,
drup tor lha pur dudtsii char chen yo
From the practice torma—the deity phurba—flowed a great flood of nectar,
ring wé sa né ting dzin tu yi sol
Through the power of your samādhi, you reconsecrated sacred sites very far away, and
zab ter bé dön sung mar cholwé drup
At your command, the guardians themselves removed profound hidden termas.
shyen sem shé sok ngön pa tra na ang
Though it was obvious that you could read the minds of others and the like,
yönten ngom mé bé la solwa dep
You never vaunted your qualities. Hidden yogin—to you we pray!

kutsé ril por tendröi dön la tsön
Your whole life long, striving for the benefit of the teachings and beings,
gyalwé ku sung tuk ten pakmé trun
You created countless supports for the body, speech, and mind of the buddhas,
gang dul tap kyi rol tsé natsok tön
Manifesting the play of skilful means to tame each according to their needs,
dakpé nangwé lha dang lama jal
Through your pure perception you met the deities and masters,
nyen gyü mindrol daknang mangpo tob
In many pure visions you obtained empowerments and instructions of the oral lineage,
sa ter gong ter chö kyi go chen ché
You opened the great Dharma door of earth treasures and mind treasures,
dzé trin namkha nyampé trinlé dal
Your enlightened activity spread everywhere, your actions equal to space,
trinlé drodul tsal la solwa dep
Trinle Drodul Tsal—to you we pray!

dé tar namkha nyampé trinlé ché
With your activity, like this, equalling the sky,
tak dzin chen nam chö la kulwé lé
So as to spur to the Dharma those who grasped at permanence,
rabjung cho nga mé tak da tse la
In the fifteenth cycle, on the tenth day of the first month of the fire tiger year,
ku lü drangpor shyuk shyin shyen dön shek
You straightened your body, and in a manner that brought benefit to others, you departed.
ku lé dung rig nga jön dzok sangyé
From your body came relics of the five families, and you attained complete enlightenment.
sipé dro kun tukjé mi tongwé
In your compassion, you did not forsake all the beings in samsaric existence,
yang si zung chik jönpé ka lung sal
But were reborn, returning in two incarnations, as made clear in the prophecies.
ngön dzok tönpa chok la solwa dep
Supreme and completely perfect teacher—to you we pray!

détar solwa tap pé tu jin gyi
Through the power and blessing of this prayer:
yang sé gyal kham tendro mi nyam pel
Throughout the whole world, may the benefit for the teachings and beings never fail but grow,
dak dang mar gyur drowa rimé pé
May I and beings who are my mothers, all together
lé drip kun jang jetsün khyé nyi dang
Purify all karma and obscurations, and never be parted from you, our noble teacher.
nam yang dralmé dampé nö gyur té
May we be worthy to receive your instructions:
jé su dzin ching chin gyi lap tu sol
Care for us, and grant us your blessings—we pray!
lha chik khyé dang yermé gyur né su
Having become inseparable from you, as our one and only deity,
namkha nyampé dro nam drol nü shok
May all beings, equal to the sky, be able to find liberation!

At the insistence of his own son, Padma Wangchuk and others, and without introducing ideas of
his own, this life and liberation of the supreme master, whose kindness was beyond compare,
was composed in the form of a prayer by old Drime Özer (Tertön Drimé), in his sixty sixth
year at his retreat place, ‘The Turquoise Fortress of the Mighty Lion’. May positivity
abound! Virtue! Virtue! Virtue!

| Rigpa Translations, 1999.
↑ Also known as Rigdzin Gödem (1337-1409), the great tertön who revealed the Northern Treasures.↑
Also known as Lekden Je, the second Rigdzin Chenpo of Dorje Drak. His exact dates are
unclear, but according to TBRC (P1701) he was born in 1512.↑ The fourth Rigdzin Chenpo of
Dorje Drak (1641-1717), a teacher of Minling Terchen Gyurme Dorje.↑ (1856)↑ One of the two
main 'heart-sons' of Nyala Padma Düdul (1816-1872), the other being Rangrik Dorje.↑ Also
known as Jikme Yönten Gönpo (d. 1898?)↑ Also known as Kunzang Namgyal.