The Falling Rain of Blessings: A Prayer of Inspiration
from Lerab Lingpa’s revelation Purba Yang Zab Nyingpo, ‘The Deepest Heart-Essence of Vajrakīla’

Homage to Guru, Yidam and Ḍākinī!
Pray to the Guru:
om benza kili kilaya hung pé
oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya hūṃ phaṭ
I visualize myself as the yidam deity, and above my head Guru Padmākara with consort, embodying
all the masters, and actually present in person.
namo, sangye tamché kyi ngowo
Namo! Essence of all Buddhas,
chö tamché kyi dakpo
Master of all Dharma,
jinlab kün gyi jungné
Source of all blessings,
lama la solwa deb so
To the guru I pray!
lü la ku yi jingyi lob shik
Bless my body with your wisdom body,
ngak la sung gi jingyi lob shik
Bless my speech with your wisdom speech,
yi la tuk kyi jingyi lob shik
Bless my mind with your wisdom mind,
nam shyik changchub ma tob kyi bardu tukjé zik la jingyi lab tu sol
Until I attain enlightenment, look on me with your compassion, inspire me with your blessing!
Three times
om ah hung, chöku kyewa mepa dön gyi ku
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ! Unborn is the dharmakāya, the body of truth and meaning;
longku gakpa mepa lhün gyi drub
Unceasing is the sambhogakāya, spontaneous perfection;
tulku tokpa mepé dro dön dzé
Unobstructed is the nirmāṇakāya, accomplishing the benefit of beings;
yönten pak tu mepa rang la dzok
Unlimited are the noble buddha qualities, all perfect in you;
trinlé gyün ché mepé drowa dren
Uninterrupted is your enlightened activity, guiding sentient beings!
lama yidam khandro chökyong dang
Gurus, yidams, ḍākinīs, dharmapālas,
pawo pamo kün gyi daknyi ni
Vīras, and vīriṇīs—you are the embodiment of all:
jetsün chenpo pema jungné ngö
Great and noble Padmākara, here in person,
kyab dang resa khyé lé machipé
I have no other refuge, no other hope but you;
solwa deb so orgyen rinpoche
So to you I pray, Orgyen Rinpoche—
tukjé dralwa mepar zung du sol
Hold me with your compassion, without ever parting!
ngödrub tokpa mepar tsal du sol
Grant me the attainments in my practice, without any obstacle!
trinlé bemé drubpar dzé du sol
Carry out your enlightened activity, always without any effort!
namo dak ni changchub chok tu semkyé dé
Namo! I awaken the heart of the enlightened mind, the bodhicitta;
dorje purpa sangwé kyilkhor du
In this secret maṇḍala of Vajrakumāra
khyé kyi ka shyin jesu drub lak na
I shall practise exactly according to your teachings!
drub la barché mepar jingyi lob
Grant your blessing so there be no obstacles to my practice!
ngödrub nam nyi tobpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so I obtain the siddhis, ordinary and supreme!
benza guru pema heruka sarva siddhi pala hung ah harinisa ratsa hri ya sarva siddhi hung
vajra guru padma heruka sarva siddhi pala hūṃ āḥ harinisa ratsa hri ya sarva siddhi hūṃ
khor gyi lejé pawo pamo dang
May all of you in the retinue: deities who carry out actions, vīras and vīriṇīs,
rigdzin khandro bumtrak mangpo nam
Vidyādharas, and ḍākinīs in their hundreds of thousands,
möpé bu la tsewé tuk kyi gong
Look upon me, this child of devotion, with the love of your wisdom mind,
taktu dudral mepar jingyi lob
And let your blessings inspire my mind, inspire my heart, without any end!
hung hung hung
Hūṃ Hūṃ Hūṃ
As you recite this, arouse and sharpen your rigpa. The blessing of this is immense. Samaya!
According to the master’s instructions Tsogyal wrote this down, to benefit future generations.
Let all those who have the karmic connection meet with it!
The terma of Lerab Lingpa

| Rigpa Translations. Edited and adapted for Lotsawa House, 2019.

Source: Las rab gling pa. "phur pa yang zab snying po las:_gsol 'debs byin rlabs char 'bebs:"
In las rab gling pa'i gter chos/. BDRC W21810. Bylakuppe: Pema Norbu Rinpoche, 1985-. Vol.
13: 345–348.

Version: 1.1-20210709