The Summoning of Blessings which Brings them Swift and Fast
from Lerab Lingpa’s revelation Purba Yang Zab Nyingpo, ‘The Deepest Heart Essence of Vajrakīla’

Homage to the Heruka!
The Descent of Blessings:
hung chö kyi ying né ku kyö la
Hūṃ!   From the space of the dharmadhātu, rise up
deshek shyitrö jin pob chik
Peaceful and wrathful sugatas, and shower down your blessing!
durtrö gyé né ku kyö la
From the eight charnel grounds, rise up,
rigdzin nam kyi jin pob chik
O vidyādharas, and shower down your blessing!
ngayab ling né ku kyö la
From the realm of Ngayab Ling, rise up
dorjé tötreng jin pob chik
Dorjé Tötreng, and shower down your blessing!
orgyen yul né ku kyö la
From the land of Orgyen, rise up
khandrö tsok kyi jin pob chik
Host of ḍākinīs, and shower down your blessing!
namkhé tong né ku kyö la
From the highest reaches of space, rise up
dorjé tramen jin pok chik
Vajra piśācīs, and shower down your blessing!
gangkar tsé né ku kyö la
From the peaks of the white snow mountains, rise up
dorjé ging chen jin pob chik
Great vajra kiṃkaras, and shower down your blessing!
gyatsö tingné ku kyö la
From the depths of the oceans, rise up
tso ling khandrö jin pob chik
Ḍākinīs of the islands, and shower down your blessing!
gya bal bö kyi drubné su
In the practice places of India, of Nepal and Tibet,
lobpön pema jungné kyi
Master Padmākara, you attained
deshek drubpa kagyé dang
The siddhis of the eight sugatas of Kagyé
purpé ngödrub nyepa tar
And of Vajrakīla; in the same way
dengdir dak la jin pob chik
Pour down your blessings on us here now!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant us the attainments, ordinary and supreme!
hung ü chok tong gi jikten gyi
Hūṃ!   On one thousand realms in the centre, where
zuk nang tamché purpé lha
All forms perceived are the deities of Kīla,
dra drak bhuddha kilaya
All sounds are Buddhakīla:
deshek tuk kyi jin pob chik
Shower down the wisdom mind blessing of the sugatas!
sharchok tong gi jikten gyi
On one thousand realms in the east, where
zuk nang tamché purpé lha
All forms perceived are the deities of Kīla,
dra drak benza kilaya
All sounds are Vajrakīla:
deshek ku yi jin pob chik
Shower down the wisdom body blessing of the sugatas!
lhochok tong gi jik ten gyi
On one thousand realms in the south, where
zuk nang tamché purpé lha
All forms perceived are the deities of Kīla,
dra drak ratna kilaya
All sounds are Ratnakīla:
deshek yönten jin pob chik
Shower down the blessing of noble qualities of the sugatas!
nubchok tong gi jikten gyi
On one thousand realms in the west, where
zuk nang tamché purpé lha
All forms perceived are the deities of Kīla,
dra drak pema kilaya
All sounds are Padmakīla:
deshek sung gi chin pob chik
Shower down the wisdom speech blessing of the sugatas!
jangchok tong gi jikten gyi
On one thousand realms in the north, where
zuk nang tamché purpé lha
All forms perceived are the deities of Kīla,
dra drak karma kilaya
All sounds are Karmakīla:
deshek trinlé jin pob chik
Shower down the blessing of the enlightened activity of the sugatas!
rik nga deshek shyitrö lha
Peaceful and wrathful deities of the sugatas of five families,
dü sum gyalwa khor ché kyi
Buddhas of the three times, surrounded by your retinues,
drubpé né dir jin pob chik
On this place of practice, shower down your blessings!
kyilkhor di la dang chik chung
Make this maṇḍala shine and glow in splendour!
naljor dak la wang shyi kur
Grant us yogins and yoginīs the four empowerments!
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Dispel all negative and obstructing forces that lead astray!
tak dang tsenma ngö su tön
Show us the signs and marks of the siddhis!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant us the attainments, ordinary, and supreme!
guru deva dhakini abeshaya pem pem
Excellent signs and indications of the blessings will arise: in reality, in experience, and
in dreams. Do not create expectation and fear about such signs, but exert yourself in practice
with a fierce enthusiasm. For the benefit of future generations, this is concealed as
terma. May those with the karmic link encounter it!
Samaya! Sealed!
Lerab Lingpa decoded this from the terma.

| Rigpa Translations. Edited and adapted for Lotsawa House, 2019.

Source: Las rab gling pa. "phur pa yang zab snying po las:_byin 'bebs byin rlabs myur mgyogs:"
In las rab gling pa'i gter chos/. BDRC W21810. Bylakuppe: Pema Norbu Rinpoche, 1985-. Vol.
13: 353–356.

Version: 1.1-20210709